OWASP ZAP is an open source proxy which includes free scanning capability. 
In this episode, we will discuss the active scanning functionality and review the scan results.

   	After downloading and installing, launch OWASP ZAP by clicking on the icon of ZAP.

To run the first test, just enter the URL in the field "URL to attack" (e.g. http://www.testsite.com) and
 click on the button "Attack". This is a basic scan and it gives security vulnerabilities.


Note: Never run this tool on any public websites
 as it is illegal under the law unless you have proper permission to do so.


Results:
On successful running of a scan, ZAP gives the list of application security issues.
 All issues you can find under the tab "Alerts".


Reporting of application vulnerabilities

After the successful running of the tool, you can download reports in formats such as 
HTML, XML, and Markdown by navigating ZAP tool -> Report. Also, 
you can also export messages, responses, and selected URLs to file in ASCII format
 by selecting rows under the History tab for future reference.


Configuring Proxies
You need to configure the web browser to use ZAP as a proxy. 
You can see these local proxy details by navigating ZAP Tool -> Tools -> Options -> Local Proxy:


You need to configure your web browser by navigating:

Firefox Menu ->Options 
-> Settings (Under Network Proxy) 
-> Manual Proxy Configuration. Set HTTP Proxy as "localhost" and Port as "8080".

You can check by browsing any URL and check whether the ZAP tool 
captures traffic by intercepting or not.

Authentication:
Some websites need usernames and passwords for vulnerability scanning.
 To do authentication, intercept the traffic by configuring the proxies mentioned above.
 Right-click on the login request, select "Flag as Context" and click "Form-based Auth Login Request".

Conclusion
OWASP ZAP is an awesome tool for beginners who wants to start a security assessment of web applications.
 The big community is working to enhance the features of this tool.
 I will definitely recommend you use this tool in your cybersecurity assignment.
























