What is Shodan?
Shodan is a search engine but very different from regular search engines like Google, Yahoo, Bing, etc., 
which search the web for standard websites.
 Shodan was explicitly designed and developed to pull information about IoT devices connected to the internet.
 It ranks critical information about various devices that the regular browser user would never see.
 Some of the things that you can find on the internet with Shodan include:

Cameras (e.g CCTVs,Webcams)
Routers and Devices
Baby monitors
Maritime satellites
Prison payphones
Traffic light systems
Water treatment facilities
Nuclear power plants, and much more

Don't freak out from the above examples and run hiding in a bunker.
 Yes, Shodan can provide you with publicly accessible information about a router, a server, or a nuclear plant, but that doesn't
 mean anybody with an active internet connection will now have full access to the device or system. However, there is also a catch! 
This publicly accessible information can also be very critical. For example, Hackers will indeed have access to these devices
 if you have a webcam or router connected to the internet and still use the default login username and password. That is why security 
measures like strong password, two-factor authentication, the use of Firewalls, and strict security protocols is highly recommended. 
You will understand this better when we start looking at some practical examples with Shodan.


How does Shodan Work?
To understand how Shodan works, let's first look at how regular search engines like Google and Yahoo operate.
 Google uses automated programs called crawlers that crawl the world wide web looking for any new or updated pages.
 It captures the page URLs (page addresses) and stores them in a list where it will look up for them later when a user makes a search request.

Shodan works similarly to Google. It crawls the internet using a global network of computers and servers requesting connections to every IP address
 that appears on the internet. It indexes all the pieces of information received from these IPs. Of course, not all IP addresses will return relevant information.
 Still, most of them respond with banners that contain metadata information about the devices using these IPs to connect to the internet.

Some of the information includes:

Device name: refers to the device's name (it's set as Hostname)—for example, Cisco router or Samsung Galaxy A32.
IP address: This is a unique code used to identify a device on the internet. For example, 206.189.189.202
Location: The country, city, or any other geographical identifier where this device is located.
Organization: This refers to who owns the "IP Space."
Ports: